Spinning Bees and Liberty Tea
1 “Mother, I would give anything for a proper cup of tea.
Please tell me why we cannot have it anymore,” said Sarah
as she set the table. Mrs. Addams boiled water to make
hot tea from berry leaves instead of tea leaves. A group of
ladies would arrive any minute.
2 Mrs. Addams said, “The American patriots dumped British
tea into Boston Harbor last December. We will not drink
British tea in this house. That is how we show support for
their action.”
3 She went on. “We have no say in how we are ruled. Still
we must pay taxes on everything we buy. We boycott British
goods. That shows we will not stand for unfair rules. I will
not put money in the king's pocket! I would sooner do
without something I love.”
4 Soon the neighbors began to arrive. Many of them carried
small spinning wheels.
5 Mrs. Roberts said, “Good day, Mrs. Addams. You are kind
to have us. My mother thinks I buy thread and cloth at the
market. She still supports the British. She buys goods from
England. She would not understand why I spin my own
thread and weave my own cloth.”
6 Another neighbor said, "I enjoy your spinning bees. It is
good to work together. Sarah, I look forward to a cup of your
Liberty Tea."
7 Mrs. Addams nodded. "It helps to be together when we must
make hard choices."
8 The women chatted and began to spin wool. Sarah thought,
It is good to fight for our rights. But I still would enjoy a nice
cup of English tea.
1. In paragraph 3, what is the meaning of the word boycott?
A make goods in order to sell them
B  purchase goods that are needed
C refuse to buy certain products
D make goods instead of buying them
2. What kind of passage is this?
A a play
B  an article
C historical fiction
D personal narrative
3. This question has two parts. Answer Part A first. Then answer Part B.
Part A Which event happened first, according to the passage?
A Sarah's family stopped drinking English tea.
B  Some Americans threw tea into Boston Harbor.
C Sarah's mother invited her neighbors for Liberty Tea.
D The neighbors showed up with their spinning wheels.
Part B Which sentence from the passage supports the answer to Part A?
A “'Mother, I would give anything for a proper cup of tea.'”
B  A group of ladies would arrive any minute.
C The American patriots dumped British tea into Boston Harbor last
December.
D Many of them carried small spinning wheels.
4. Which sentence from the passage supports the idea that Liberty Tea is
not sold in any shop?
A Mrs. Addams boiled water to make hot tea from berry leaves
instead of tea leaves.
B  The American patriots dumped British tea into Boston Harbor last
December.
C “‘Sarah, I look forward to a cup of your Liberty Tea.’”
D “But I still would enjoy a nice cup of English tea.”
5. What does Sarah do last in the passage?
A She talks with her mother about why they do not drink tea.
B  She helps the neighbors carry their spinning wheels.
C She makes a cup of tea.
D She thinks about drinking real tea.
6. Describe two things the ladies in this passage are doing to support
the patriots.
