Why Sybil Is Sleeping
1 “Mama, why isn't Sybil up yet? I need her help practicing my numbers so that Teacher doesn't yell at me,” said Derick.
2 “I need her to button my shoes,” said Henry.
3 “And she always brushes my hair before breakfast!” complained Mary.
4 Baby Abigail didn't say anything. She just peeked under the furniture in search of her missing sister.
5 The six younger Ludington children all depended on their oldest sister. So did their mother. “Sybil is sleeping,” she said quietly.
6 “Sleeping!” said Mary. “Sybil never sleeps this late!”
7 It was true. When Sybil wasn't helping her mother with the other children, she kept busy cooking and cleaning. She washed and mended clothes and did other tasks around the house. Perhaps it was good that the Ludington girls could not attend school as their brothers did. Many of Sybil's chores would go undone.
8 In fact, Sybil's father depended on her as well. He was a leader of the Revolutionary Army in New York. As a result, Colonel Ludington was wanted by the British. There was a reward for his arrest. Some time ago, a British sympathizer had tried to capture the colonel in his home. Sybil and her younger sister Rebecca were keeping watch that night, armed with pistols. The girls gave the alarm. Right away, the family lit candles and paraded back and forth in front of the windows. To a stranger, it looked like many, many people were inside, protecting the colonel. The attacker gave up and went away.
9 Mrs. Ludington softly explained why Sybil was still not awake this morning. “Last night when Sybil was putting you to bed, a messenger came to see your father. He said that the British soldiers had just attacked Danbury. Father needed to gather soldiers to fight the British. It was not safe to go himself. Sybil offered to go. She spent the whole night on horseback, alerting the soldiers. She rode all around the county. She traveled forty miles in the cold, rainy night.”
10 “Mama, look!” Young Henry pointed out the window. Four hundred soldiers had gathered on the Ludingtons' lawn under the rising sun.
11 Mrs. Ludington looked outside where her husband paced in front of the soldiers. Sybil had made her family proud once again. 

7. In paragraph 5, what is the meaning of the word depended?
A needed help from
B  waited for
C looked up to
D made fun of

8. How can you tell that this passage is historical fiction?
A The characters act like real people.
B  Events in the story actually happened in the past.
C The story contains dialogue between characters.
D Characters in the story are named Henry and Mary.

9. This question has two parts. Answer Part A first. Then answer Part B.
Part A Which event happened first, according to the passage?
A Someone tried to capture Sybil’s father at the Ludington’s home.
B  The British attacked a fort at Danbury.
C Sybil’s brothers and sisters wanted to know why she was sleeping.
D Sybil rode through the night to gather soldiers from around the county.

Part B Which sentence from the passage supports the answer to Part A?
A Some time ago, a British sympathizer had tried to capture the colonel in his home.
B  “Last night when Sybil was putting you to bed, a messenger came to see your father.”
C “He said that the British soldiers had just attacked Danbury.”
D Four hundred soldiers had gathered on the Ludingtons’ lawn under the rising sun.

10. Which event happened last, according to the passage?
A Sybil put her brothers and sisters to bed.
B  Colonel Ludington was arrested.
C Sybil offered to spread the news.
D Soldiers gathered on the Ludingtons’ lawn.

11. Which sentence from “Why Sybil Is Sleeping” supports the idea that girls did not have the same rights as boys in Sybil’s time?
A “I need her help practicing my numbers so that Teacher doesn’t yell at me,” said Derick.
B  Perhaps it was a good thing that the Ludington girls could not attend school as their brothers did.
C Sybil and her younger sister Rebecca were keeping watch that night, armed with pistols.
D Sybil offered to go.

12. The author says that Sybil had made her family proud once again. Which sentence explains what made her family proud this time?
A “And she always brushes my hair before breakfast!” complained Mary.
B  She washed and mended clothes and did other tasks around the house.
C She spent the whole night on horseback, alerting the soldiers.
D Four hundred soldiers had gathered on the Ludingtons’ lawn under the rising sun.

13. Describe two important things about Sybil that you learned from this passage.

14. Based on these two passages, how were Sarah and Sybil alike?
A Both of them were allowed to attend school.
B  They both supported the English king.
C Both of them came from large families.
D They both gave up something for an important cause.

15. How are the settings of both passages alike?
A Both passages are set in the present time.
B  The events in both passages take place in England.
C Both passages are set in long-ago America.
D The events in both passages take place in the same house.

16. Which theme fits both of these passages?
A It is better to solve problems peacefully than to go to war.
B  Sometimes people must sacrifice for what they believe in.
C Family is the only thing that keeps people bound together.
D Everyone wants peace, but very few will work for it.

Writing Prompt
Think about the main characters in the two passages you read. Which main character made the biggest sacrifice, or gave up the most, for an important reason? Write an essay to explain your opinion. Use details from the passages to support your ideas.
